**Describe any layered process you are familiar with similar to the OSI model**

## TCP/IP Model:
Like the OSI model, the TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol) model is a model designed to standardise computer networking. It is the most commonly used model in todays world.
Compared to the the OSI model, model which has seven (7) layers, the TCP/IP model has 5 layers:

5. Application layer: The application layer has protocols such as HTTP, FTP, SMTP. 
4. Transport layer: The most common transport layer protocols are UDP and TCP, port numbers are also added here.
3. network layer: The network layer adds the IP, routers are also added here. Common protocols include OSPF, BGP, IS-IS
2. Datalink layer: This layer contains, ethernet; switches also operate here, although there exists Layer Three(L3) switches with routine capabilities 
1. Physical layer: The physical layer comprises of everything we can feel and touch, including cables, network interface cards (NIC) etc.
	 
	When data is to be transferred between computers, it passes through each layer, every layer adds its own bit of information, this process is called encapsulation. On reaching the physical layer, the data is transmitted over to the receiving device. The receiving computer begins to decapsulate the data received just like in the OSI model.
	Consider an assignment file to be sent via email, when the send button is clicked. the browser operates on application layer protocol (L5), the file is then sent to the next layer, L4 where the 	transport information is added, for an email, a TCP header is typically used. Headers contain specific information. For example, a TCP model will contain things like the source and destination port number, sequence numbers and few bits of information. The data at this stage is called is chopped into segments. The segments are then passed to the next layer, L3 (networking layer) where the IP header is added. This will contain the source and destination IP address as well as other bits of information, at this stage, the file at this stage is called a packet. The packets then move to L2 (datalink layer) here a header and trailer is added. The header contains the source and destination MAC address while the trailer contains error checking information that the receiving side can check and make sure the data has been received correctly. Data at this stage is called a Frame. The frame then moves to the next and final layer, L1 (physical layer)   where it is physically transmitted to the receiver. 
	Once data  transmitted is received (layer 1), the receiving computer begins to decapsulate the information received. The frame is checked for the destination MAC address (layer 2). If the frame is destined for our computer, it is processed further. The computer then checks the IP information of the packet (Layer 3). If the packet is destined for our computer, The transport information is read (Layer 2) and the application data is sent to the receiving application (Layer 1).