# What is Scrum  
Scrum is an agile development methodology used in the development of Software based on an iterative and incremental processes.  Scrum is adaptable, fast, flexible and effective agile framework that is designed to deliver value to the customer throughout the development of the project. The primary objective of Scrum is to satisfy the customer’s need through an environment of transparency in communication, collective responsibility and continuous progress. The development starts from a general idea of ​​what needs to be built, elaborating a list of characteristics ordered by priority (product backlog) that the owner of the product wants to obtain.

## Benefits of Srum
1. Easily Scalable: Scrum processes are iterative and are handled within specific work periods, which makes it easier for the team to focus on definite functionalities for each period. This not only has the benefit of achieving better deliverables in line with the needs of the user, but also gives the ability to the teams to scale the modules in terms of functionality, design, scope and characteristics in an orderly, transparent and simple manner.
2. Compliance of expectations: The client establishes their expectations indicating the value that each requirement/ history of the project brings, the team estimates them and with this information the Product Owner establishes its priority. On a regular basis, in the sprint demos, the Product Owner verifies that the requirements have been met and transmits feedback to the team.
3. Flexible to changes: Quick reaction to changes in requirements generated by customer needs or market developments. The methodology is designed to adapt to the changing requirements that complex projects entail.
4. Time to Market reduction: The client can start using the most important functionalities of the project before the product is completely ready.
5. Reduction of risks:  The fact of carrying out the most valuable functionalities in the first place and of knowing the speed with which the team advances in the project, allows to clear risks effectively in advance.
## Complete the following
1. Individuals and interactions over the dev and designers both isolated.
2. Working software over long creation process that may lead to bugs accumulation
3. Customer collaboration over lack of feedback during production
4. Responding to change over revisiting the design board after months of development.
